+++
title = "Unmasking the Veil: An Investigation into Concept Ablation for Privacy and Copyright Protection in Images"
date = 2024-06-28T00:00:00
draft = false

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Shivank Garg", "Manyana Tiwari"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
# 7 = Working paper
publication_types = ["1"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "Transactions on Machine Learning Research, NeurIPS Journal Track, TMLR, 2024"
publication_short = "TMLR 24"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "In this paper, we extend the study of concept ablation within pre-trained models as introduced in 'Ablating Concepts in Text-to-Image Diffusion Models'. Our work focuses on reproducing the results achieved by the different variants of concept ablation proposed through predefined metrics. We also introduce a novel variant of concept ablation—trademark ablation. This variant combines the principles of memorization and instance ablation to tackle the nuanced influence of proprietary or branded elements in model outputs. Further, our research contributions include an observational analysis of the model's limitations. Moreover, we investigate the model's behavior in response to ablation leakage-inducing prompts, which aim to indirectly ablate concepts, revealing insights into the model's resilience and adaptability. We also observe the model's performance degradation on images generated by concepts far from its target ablation concept."

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename of your project file in `content/project/`.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning.md"]` references `content/project/deep-learning.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = []

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.12592"
url_preprint = "https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.12592"
url_code = "https://github.com/vlgiitr/unmasking-the-veil"
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# url_custom = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Does this page contain LaTeX math? (true/false)
math = false

# Does this page require source code highlighting? (true/false)
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
# [header]
# image = "cache.png"
# caption = "DEAP Cache: Deep Eviction Admission and Prefetching for Cache"

+++
